CI: Adding GitHub action to assign issues based on comment (#29648)
pandas-dev/pandas: doc/source/development/contributing.rst

where you could start out. Once you've found an interesting issue, you can
return here to get your development environment setup.

When you start working on an issue, it's a good idea to assign the issue to yourself,

> so nobody else diplicates the work on it. GitHub restricts assigning issues to maintainers

Reviewer: duplicates typo

of the project only. Until recently, contributors added a comment letting others know they
are working on an issue. But we implemented a workaround consisting of adding
a comment with the exact text `take`. When you do it, a GitHub action will automatically assign

> you the issue few seconds later. This way, it's possible to filter the list of issues, and find

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you the issue a few seconds later. This way, it's possible to filter the list of issues, and find
```

> you the issue few seconds later. This way, it's possible to filter the list of issues, and find

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you the issue a few seconds later. This way, it's possible to filter the list of issues and find
```

only the unassigned ones. Work on assigned issues can be discontinued. Feel free to also
consider assigned issues. Just kindly ask the current assignee if you can take an issue,

> if it's been inactive for some time (a week at least).

Reviewer 2: Does this action prevent people from assigning themselves already-assigned issues?

I would also break this off into a separate paragraph, as this is a relatively important detail from an operations perspective.

Author: The action just adds to the list of the assignees the user who add a comment with the exact text `take`. If someone is already assigned, the new user is simply added, and the previous assignees keep unchanged. Happy to consider other options, but IMHO the simplest this works, the better.

Author: Do you mean creating a new section for this new paragraph, or would you split the paragraph in two?

Reviewer 2: > If someone is already assigned, the new user is simply added, and the previous assignees keep unchanged.

Got it.  That's fine for now.  Let's see how it plays out.

> Do you mean creating a new section for this new paragraph, or would you split the paragraph in two?

Split into two.

Author: Thanks. I splitted it and expended it a bit. Let me know what do you think. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: I like the split.  Thanks!

where you could start out. Once you've found an interesting issue, you can
return here to get your development environment setup.

> When you start working on an issue, it's a good idea to assign the issue to yourself,

Reviewer 3: I'm a little hesitant to word it this way, maybe to even allow this. For sure sometimes there is work duplication, but on the flip side I feel like more often someone says they want to work on an issue but never do (or at least never put a PR up) which may be discouraging for people with a legitimate interesting in seeing things all the way through.

Author: I see your point. But not sure if we can do any better. The current workflow has the same problems you mention I think. And the additional one that it's very time consuming to find the issues that nobody claimed.

With this new workflow, should be very fast to find issues nobody claimed. And it also moves in a good direction to automatically unassign issues (which we could currently do by adding an extra comment saying that the issue is available, but that doesn't look like a great thing).

Would you prefer to just say "work on any issue, and don't tell anyone, the probability of someone else working on the same is very small"? Feels a bit weird, may be not nice if duplication increases, but we can try.

Reviewer 3: No I just think the discouragement of claiming an issue but then never really advancing it would be a worse issue than duplication. I might be missing some PRs but I've only seen duplication on a handful of small PRs

Reviewer 4: claiming issues for a sprint is probably ok

and this does allow searching for things that are unclaimed

but will have to be rigorous about in assigning things after a little

Author: My view is that now people is already locking issues for themselves using a comment. And I assume most people don't start working on something if they see someone else said they are working on it.

For me that's reasonable. The problem that I see is that there is no way to get the list of issues nobody is working on. Using `Assignees` would make things easier:
- No need to spend the time writing comments to say you want to work on something
- Creating a filter for issues not assign becomes trivial
- Unassigning yourself from an issue is trivial (and I guess more likely, since having your name formally in assignees should give certain sense of responsibility)
- It becomes trivial to know if someone is assign, without having to read possibly ambiguous comments (e.g. "is it ok if I work in this?")
- I guess implementing a bot that unassignes issues after some time (a week?) of inactivity should be easy

I'm optimistic that if we start using assignees, we could possibly create 200 issues for small fixes (e.g. small changes to docstrings), label them, promote somewhere (social media, sprints...), and we should be able to provide a link where people knows what is pending (not assigned).

We'll see how this works in practice, but I think it's worth trying. I don't expect this discouraging people or making things more inefficient. But it can possibly make it easier for people who want to contribute, to find things to work on.

Reviewer 4: sure let’s try it

comment letting others know they are working on an issue. While this is ok, you need to
check each issue individually, and it's not possible to find the unassigned ones.

For this reason, we implemented a workaround consisting of adding a comment with the exact
text `take`. When you do it, a GitHub action will automatically assign you the issue
(this will take seconds, and may require refreshint the page to see it).
By doing this, it's possible to filter the list of issues and find only the unassigned ones.

So, a good way to find an issue to start contributing to pandas is to check the list of
`unassigned good first issues <https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22+no%3Aassignee>`_
and assign yourself one you like by writing a comment with the exact text `take`.

If for whatever reason you are not able to continue working with the issue, please try to
unassign it, so other people know it's available again. You can check the list of
assigned issues, since people may not be working in them anymore. If you want to work on one
that is assigned, feel free to kindly ask the current assignee if you can take it

> (please allow at least a week on inactivity before considering work in the issue can be discontinued).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(please allow at least a week of inactivity before considering work in the issue discontinued).
```
